Common Impact Data Standard (CIDS)

Organization 

An organization is a group of people who work together to achieve a common goal. Organizations can be large or small, public or private, and profit-making or non-profit. 

Impact Model 

An impact model is a tool that organizations use to understand and measure their impact. It helps organizations to identify their goals, track their progress, and communicate their impact to others. 

Program 

A program is a set of activities that are designed to achieve a specific goal. Programs can be implemented by organizations, governments, or individuals. 

Service 

A service is a product or activity that is provided to others. Services can be provided by organizations, governments, or individuals. 

Activity 

An activity is a specific task that is performed as part of a program or service. Activities can be as simple as providing information or as complex as providing medical care. 

Input 

An input is a resource that is used to produce an output. Inputs can be financial, human, or physical resources. 

Output 

An output is a product or service that is produced by an activity. Outputs can be tangible, such as a product, or intangible, such as a change in knowledge or behavior. 

Outcome 

An outcome is a change that occurs as a result of an output. Outcomes can be positive or negative, and they can be short-term or long-term. 

Stakeholder 

A stakeholder is someone who is affected by the activities of an organization. Stakeholders can be internal, such as employees, or external, such as customers or suppliers. 

Stakeholder Outcome 

A stakeholder outcome is a change that occurs in the life of a stakeholder as a result of the activities of an organization. Stakeholder outcomes can be positive or negative, and they can be short-term or long-term. 

Impact Report 

An impact report is a document that describes the impact of an organization's activities. Impact reports can be used to communicate the organization's impact to stakeholders, funders, and the public. 

Impact Risk 

An impact risk is a factor that could prevent an organization from achieving its goals. Impact risks can be internal, such as a lack of resources, or external, such as a change in the political climate. 

Indicator 

An indicator is a measure that is used to track progress towards a goal. Indicators can be quantitative, such as the number of people served, or qualitative, such as the level of satisfaction of customers. 

Indicator Report 

An indicator report is a document that describes the performance of an organization's indicators. Indicator reports can be used to track progress towards goals, identify areas for improvement, and communicate the organization's performance to stakeholders. 

Impact Scale 

The impact scale is the size of the impact that an organization has. Impact scale can be measured in terms of the number of people affected, the amount of money saved, or the amount of environmental damage prevented. 

Impact Depth 

The impact depth is the extent to which an organization's impact changes the lives of stakeholders. Impact depth can be measured in terms of the duration of the impact, the severity of the impact, and the number of stakeholders affected. 

Impact Duration 

The impact duration is the length of time that an organization's impact lasts. Impact duration can be measured in terms of years, decades, or even centuries. 